
		------------------------------------
		eZ publish online editor user manual
		------------------------------------

The editor looks like a familiar WYSIWYG word program. Some functions are 
integrate with eZ publish which we will explain in more detail in this
manual. No technical experience is needed to use OE.

Using the toolbar
-----------------

1. Text style

From the dropdown list of the editor, you can choose text style of what you 
are going to write. The most common style is 'normal' and other six styles 
the editor supports is from 'heading 1' to 'heading 6'.

2. Redo writing

You can reverse the 'Undo' command by click the 'Redo' button. To reverse 
more than one 'Undo' action, keep clicking the 'Redo' button.

3. Undo writing

You can reverse the last command or delete last entry you have written by 
click the 'Undo' button. To reverse more than one action, keep clicking the
'Undo' button.

4. Bold format

To make selected text bold, simply click on the 'Bold' button. If the 
selected text is already bold, you can remove the formatting by clicking the 
'Bold' button.

5. Italic format

To make selected text italic, simply click on the 'Italic' button. If the 
selected text is already italic, you can remove the formatting by clicking 
the 'Italic' button.

6. Numbered list

To make paragraphs as numbered list, click on the 'Numbered list' button. To
continue another numbered paragraph, press 'Enter' and keep writing. Press 
'Back space' when you want to stop numbered list. You can remove numbered list
formatting by clicking the 'Numbered list' button if the selected text is 
already numbered list. You can use 'Increase list indent'/'Decrease list indent' 
to make nested list.

7. Bullet list

To make paragraphs as bullet list, click on the 'Bullet list' button. To 
continue another bullet paragraph, press 'Enter' and keep writing. Press 
'Back space' when you want to stop bullet list. You can remove bullet list
formatting by click on the 'Bullet list' button if the selected text is 
already bullet list. You can use 'Increase list indent'/'Decrease list indent' 
to make nested list.

8. Decrease list indent

This button will be enabled only if you are editing list text. Click on the 
'Decrease list indent' button to decrease indent for list.


9. Increase list indent

This button will be enabled only if you are editing list text. Click on the 
'Increase list indent' button to increase indent for the list.


10. Insert object

   10.1 Insert object

   Before inserting an object, make sure the object is in the list of related
   objects. Otherwise, you should add the inserting object to related objects
   list or upload local image/file first.
       
       10.1.1. Add an object to the related objects list

       To add an object to the related object list you can press 'Add existing'
       button in the main content edit window. Then you find the object you want 
       to add and tick off that object and click 'Select’. Now you will find the 
       object in the related objects list. You can also press 'Upload new' button
       to upload a file/image and add it as related object.

       10.1.2. Upload local image/file directly from insert object window.
       
       You can upload local image/file from insert object window directly by pressing
       'Upload new' button, choose a local image/file in the insert object window, 
       specify the name of the image/file, choose location from list and then click 
       'OK' button.

       10.1.3  Insert image object
      
       When the 'Insert object' button is clicked, a window will pop up where 
       you can choose an inserting object and specify size, alignment and 
       class of this object. Custom attributes can be added by clicking 'New attribute' 
       button. To remove custom attributes, select one or more attributes and then 
       press 'Remove selected' button. If the object type is an image, the real image 
       will be inserted into the editor after you have pressed 'OK' button.
	     
       10.1.4  Insert general object

       If you have chosen an another type of object, note that attribute size is disabled. 
       Specify alignment and class of this object. Custom attributes can be added by 
       clicking 'New attribute' button. To remove custom attributes, select one or more 
       attributes and then press 'Remove selected' button. An object image 
       will be inserted into the editor after you have pressed 'OK' button.
  
   10.2 Edit object
      
       10.2.1  Edit image object

       Move your mouse to the image object, and when a cross double-arrow 
       appears, click the left button of the mouse and the image will be in a
       rectangle frame. Click on the 'Insert object' button on the toolbar, 
       the insert object window will pop up and the editing object is 
       selected in the related objects list. You can edit the image size, 
       alignment and class by selecting different value and then click 
       'OK' button. If no changes need to be done, simply click 'Cancel' 
       button. 
	     
       10.2.2  Edit general object

       Move your mouse to the object, and when a cross double-arrow appears, 
       click the left button of the mouse and the object will be in a rectangle
       frame. Click on the 'Insert object' button on the toolbar, the insert 
       object window will pop up and the editing object is selected in the
       related objects list. You can edit the object by selecting different attribute
       values and then click the 'OK' button. If no changes need to be done,
       simply click 'Cancel' button. 

11. Link
  
   11.1 Insert link

   When clicking the 'Insert link' button on the toolbar a window will pop up
   where you can fill up link text, link url and choose link type or class. If 
   the checkbox 'Open in new window' is checked, the inserted link will be 
   showed in a new window when the link is clicked, otherwise, the link will be
   showed in the parent window. You can also select text in the editor and then 
   click the 'OK' button. The selected text will then be filled in 
   'Text' textfield as link text. 
   
   11.2 Edit link

   Move the mouse to the link text and click, make sure that the cursor is 
   inside the link text and click the 'OK' button on the toolbar. After 
   the insert link window popped up, you can edit the link.

12 Anchors
   
   12.1 Insert anchor

   When you click the 'Insert anchor' button, a window will pop up where you can 
   fill in an anchor name. Click on 'OK' button in this window to
   insert it, an anchor-like image will be inserted into the editor.
  
   12.2 Edit anchor

   Move your mouse to the anchor image object, when a cross double-arrow appears, 
   click the left button of the mouse. The anchor image will now be in a 
   rectangle frame. Click on the 'Insert anchor' button in the toolbar and the 
   insert anchor window will pop up and the anchor name can be changed.
  
13 Custom tag

   13.1 Insert custom tag

   If you have already created some custom tags for eZ publish 3, the pop up 
   window will show a list of all available custom tags when you click on the 
   'Insert custom tag' button on the toolbar. Select the name of the custom tag
   you want to insert, checkbox 'Inline' will be checked if the selected custom 
   tag is of type 'inline', otherwise, the checkbox will not be checked and 
   textfield 'Text' is disabled. Whether a custom tag is inline or not is 
   defined in file content.ini under directory settings.Custom attributes can be 
   added by clicking 'New attribute' button. To remove custom attributes, 
   select one or more attributes and then press 'Remove selected' button. 
   Write tag content in textfield 'Text' and click the 'OK' button if the tag is 
   of type 'inline', a small custom tag icon will be added to the editor. If 
   selected custom tag is not of type 'inline', simply click 'OK' button and a 
   single column and single row table with sky-blue background will be added into 
   the editor field, then you can write tag content inside the table cell.

   13.2 Edit custom tag

   Move your mouse to the custom tag object (table or image), when a cross 
   double-arrow appears, click the left button of the mouse. The object will 
   now be in a rectangle frame. Click on the 'Insert custom tag' button in the 
   toolbar and a window will pop up where you can edit the tag.

14 Literal input

   14.1 Insert literal
   
   By clicking the "Insert literal" button, a window will pop up where you can
   choose 'class' if you have defined available literal classes in content.ini.
   Click 'OK', a single column and single row table with purple background will 
   be added into the editor field. In this field, you can write text with tags. 
   For example, if you want to publish some xml formatted document, write them 
   inside the purple table and it will show exactly what you have written. You 
   can also use it as a html code editor by classify it to, for example, 'html' 
   class, then use eZ publish override system to render it as html code, not 
   literal text.

   14.2 Edit properties of literal

   Move your mouse to the literal tag object, when a cross double-arrow appears, 
   click the left button of the mouse. The object (table) will now be in a 
   rectangle frame. Click on the 'Insert literal' button in the toolbar and a 
   window will pop up where you can assign it to a different class.

15 Special character
   
   By clicking the "Insert special character" button, special character window 
   will pop up. Simply choose a character and click on it, then the character 
   will be inserted into the editor.

16 Tables

   16.1 Insert table

   A window will pop up when the 'Insert table' button is clicked. Specify table
   rows, columns, border, width and class, then click on the 'OK' button. 
   If the table border is 0, the table will be showed with red border colour.

   16.2 Edit table

	16.2.1 Edit table rows or columns

	Move your mouse to one of the table cells and the 'Insert row', 'Insert 
        column', 'Delete row' and 'Delete column' buttons on the toolbar will be 
        activated. By clicking the insert or delete command buttons you can add 
        rows and columns the way you want. 
	
	16.2.2 Split cell

	Move your mouse to the table cell you want to split, 'Split cell' button
        on the toolbar will be activated. Simply click this button, the cell 
        will be divided into two cells.

	16.2.3 Merge cells

	Select cells in the same row, when 'Merge cell' button on the toolbar 
        is activated, click it and all selected cells will be merged into one
	cell.
	
	16.2.4 Edit table properties

	Move the mouse to the table you want to edit and when a cross 
        double-arrow appears, click the left button of the mouse. The table 
        will be selected in a rectangle frame. Click the 'Insert table' button 
        on the toolbar and the insert table window will pop up. Note that only 
        table border, width and class are activated and can be changed. If no 
        changes need to be done, simply click 'Cancel' button.

	16.2.5 Remove entire table
	
	Move your mouse to the table you want to delete. When a cross 
        double-arrow appears, click the left button of the mouse and the table 
        will be selected in a rectangle frame. Then simply press 'Delete' key.

17 Find text

Click 'Find' button on the toolbar, a standard find text window will pop up.
Note that this button is hidden for mozilla based browsers.

18 Online help

Click 'Help' button on the toolbar, the online help menu will show. 


Using the context menu
----------------------

1. Insert object, link, anchor, literal, custom tag, table.

Right click mouse button and choose one of the insert commands from context 
menu.
    
2. Edit table.

Move mouse to a table cell and right click mouse button and choose command 
from context menu. You can insert row, insert column, delete row, delete 
column, split cell or insert object, table, link, anchor, custom tag and 
literal tag. To set table cell as table header, choosing "TH" from context
menu; To merge cells in different rows choosing command 'Merge down' from 
context menu; To edit table cell properties, choosing "Cell Properties" from
context menu, a window will pop up where you can set cell width and cell 
class. You can set width and class either to the selected cell, to the same
row as the selected cell or to the same column as the selected cell by 
choosing radio button Cell, Row, Column, respectively.
    
3. Edit properties of object, anchor, literal, custom tag, table.

Move mouse to the object (image or table), and when a cross double-arrow 
appears, click the left button of the mouse. The object will be in a 
rectangle frame. Right click mouse button and choose "Properties" from 
context menu, the object property window will pop up. Then you can edit 
properties of the object. If no changes need to be done, simply click 
'Cancel' button. 
   
4. Edit link.

Move mouse to the link text and right click the mouse button. Select 
"Link properties" from the context menu if you want to edit link properties;
Select "Remove Link" if you just want to remove the link.

5. Edit class attribute of tag header, bold, italic, ol or ul.

Move mouse to the text and right click the mouse button and choose command 
"Properties" from the context menu, a window will pop up where you can assign
class to this tag ( You need to define available classes for this tag in 
content.ini ).


Tips
----
  
1. You can add a paragraph by pressing 'Enter'.

2. You can add a line break by holding the Shift key down and type 'Enter'.

3. The status bar will show the current tag name, all its parent tags and 
   class information of the tag.

4. You can make image as link by selecting the image first and then either
   clicking the link button in the toolbar or choose command "Insert Link" 
   from context menu.

5. You can change the view of editor by editing editor.css under directory 
   extension/ezdhtml/design/standard/stylesheets/ezdhtml/.

6. You can edit wordmatch.ini under directory extension/ezdhtml/settings/ 
   to make text copied from word directly assigned to desired class.
